This folder contains the scripts and additional materials used to apply the developped aging clocks to external datasets.

Content:
* create_imputation_data.py: Python script to create imputation data from the training dataset, which can be used to impute missing values during the application of the clocks to external data
* imputation_data: Folder containing the imputation data created from the training dataset, which is used in the scripts applying the clocks to external data
* apply_cell_type_specific_clocks_frohlich.py: Python script applying the developped cell-type-specific aging clocks to the Fröhlich et al. dataset detailed in the manuscript
* apply_non_cell_type_specific_clocks_frohlich.py: Python script applying the developped non-cell-type-specific aging clocks to the Fröhlich et al. dataset detailed in the manuscript
* apply_cell_type_specific_clocks_velmeshev.py: Python script applying the developped cell-type-specific aging clocks to the Velmeshev et al. dataset detailed in the manuscript
* apply_non_cell_type_specific_clocks_velmeshev.py: Python script applying the developped non-cell-type-specific aging clocks to the Velmeshev et al. dataset detailed in the manuscript
* mapping.csv: File used as a dictionary to map gene ids to gene names (used in apply_cell_type_specific_clocks_velmeshev.py and apply_non_cell_type_specific_clocks_velmeshev.py)

!**The scripts are making use of the clock files generated by the clock training scripts (found in the Aging clocks folder). The clocks can also be retrieved from the Supplementary Data 4 of the manuscript. The retrieved files, after import, have to be transposed (i.e. the columns should represent the clock features) and the column containing the intercept of the model (named "intercept") has to be made to be the last column. The clock files should also be named the same way as returned by the clock training scripts.**!

### General pipeline for the application of the aging clocks:
1. External gene expression data has to be in a *./external_data* folder
2. Aging clocks have to be copied to a *./clocks* folder
3. Data for missing value imputation has to be in the *./imputation_data* folder
4. A folder named "application_of_clock" has to be created prior to be used as the output folder of the results generated by the scripts
5. Apply the clocks using the specific python scripts: <br />
*python [name of the script file].py*
